Everyone.
Welcome to the dining programming section.
In this section, we'll understand how to solve our dynamic programming problem.
Right?
So before that, we'll see what are the new programming problems.
And of course, we'll start from the basics because we have all types of students here and start from
very basic and we'll go till very advance.
Okay.
And what I believe is that in dynamic programming, you do not need much to iterate.
Of course to it is important, but only to one do the part.
So I have decided to call these 26 problems from at Coder Education and Dynamic Programming Contest
to resolve all these problems one by one.
And these problems like contains different types of dynamic programming.
Tony's dead at eight.
So they will be accommodating in all these problems.
That would be a regressive relation and will solve this problem when it has all types of difficulty
levels and different types of solutions.
And also, I tried to go all these problems in both the ways I will solve the problems, in both the
tabulation form and the memorization form.
They will try to bottom up and top down approach, basically.
First of all, let us understand these terms.
Bottom up, top down tabulation, memorization and optimal substructure and other state.
So let's come back and let's start with the basic introduction to dynamic programming.
In dynamic programming, what happens if these types of problems are those problems which involve maximizing
or minimizing some particular subsets?
Right.
It's like you have all these options.
Which option is the best one?
Tell me which is the best option?
Basically, out of all the options, we have to choose the best option and redundancy.
And also, yeah, so there will be steps when we solve all these dynamic programming problems.
So I think 26 really good problems are more than enough.
If you want to understand what is any programming and how does it work.
So the term taking all these problems and moment the first step is what we'll do is will form.
Former state.
Forming a state is the most important part in any dynamic programming problem.
You should have a state aid.
What's a state will generally define it as F of some variables a x, y, commas and and so on.
It can be many, right?
If it is F of x only that means it's a one dimensional d b because only one variable is there.
If it is f of x comma y, then it's actually d b because there are two variable states for each F of
x, comma, y, common z and all x.
X, y and z are independent variables.
They do not depend on each other and it's a 3D, DP and so on.
So we can have multi dimensional APIs engaged.
Yes.
In this dynamic programming playlist we can see, I firstly will understand what is AP will understand
some basic terms of DP, then we'll simply move on to solve all the solving all those 26 problems.
After solving those problems, you'll get a good idea of what is done with programming and where it
can be used after the.
Will like solve some classical problems.
Are there ways you can solve the classical problems yourself?
Because those really six problems are really good.
And yeah.
So after that we'll move on to some starting topics are dynamically rhyming like if you will musk eight
and as always dip into the stocks which are a little advanced part.
But yes we'll start with the basic introduction really be and some easy problems.
So the first step to solving our dynamic programming problem is to form a state, right?
So here we are forming a state which is F of X, comma, right, comma, something.
Right.
And the second step will be.
It's like finding the recursive relation that if I were state of F of something and that state is dependent
on how many state or if it is dependent on some limited number of states, then how is a dependent?
Is it a summation of all the state or a multiplication of all the state or minimum of all the states?
The second is.
Forming a recursive relation.
By recursive because f of something we call f of something on the rate only the variables will change.
I'll give you an example.
Do not worry.
Forming a recursive relation.
So these.
These three pots will be common in all the dining room programming problems.
Generally, dynamic programming is actually optimizing a recursive relation, basically, so we have
to optimize it.
It goes evolution by using some different tips and tricks.
Well.
The green is forming a recursive relation.
For example, the basic example that we always take is the Fibonacci numbers example.
Even a number eight, which is how we love it.
When I see this define it, it often is.
It goes to F and minus one.
Plus and minus two.
Eight.
As you can see, this is a state, but it is a state event.
So how will it define this state?
It f often is equal to f of represents the end event number.
So this is that normal definition of a state.
Sometimes it can be F of IED.
Rated F of IED represents something in terms of eye injury.
The second step was forming a regressive religion that often is equals to a friend minus one.
Plus if a friend minus two normal people taking the right.
So this part, guys, this part is called the second part.
It is also called.
Optimal.
Substructure.
Right.
So what does obtuse obstructive mean for this?
Optimal means.
Optimal means not less.
Not more like optimum rate.
So here you can easily see that if I were to find a reconciliation which is f often is equal to F off
and minus one plus and minus two, then only these two terms are needed.
Right?
I'm not finding any third dummy here and not doing anything with it.
So I'm not taking some extra items and I'm not taking and I'm also including the terms that I need.
So it's not minimum and it's not maximum.
It's optimal only the things that we need.
We are not performing any extra work here.
We are only going over two back notes, not three back notes or four back notes.
So that's my optimal where reduce do we should have an optimal recursive relation and.
Substructure or it's also called sub problem optimizer problems.
So that's not tough to understand because f of endurance over and minus when and if or when.
Minus two similarly goes above and minus will be dependent on F4 and minus two and f7 minus three eight.
That's what substructure or sub problem means that I have a problem.
It's divided into sub problem.
Then that's a problem is itself a problem and it is further divided into a problems.
I'm just giving you a basic example of even taking a let's say I want to find out Fibonacci number of
six.
This is dependent of a four, five and also four four.
Now if a five is dependent on F of four because 945 is again itself a problem.
Right now after four days of three and F of two.
Now if a food is dependent over an F of three.
And if do.
Right now I just want you to understand these optimum substructure and because I overlapping some problems
two days that are overlapping the problems I explained you do not worry.
And yeah.
F of doing it for fun.
Because I'll be using those terms again and again.
So I want you to understand them.
So we don't know.
So we know what is F of one and F of the.
So what are F1 and F2?
These will be called base cases.
Base cases that means these are not a problem.
I know are solutions.
So if I know what F1 an EV of two represents, I do not have to divide it into further recursive relations
because I simply have those answers.
It's f of three is F of two and f of.
But I.
But you can easily see that all the lymph nodes in this tree f2, f1, F2, two, two, one, two,
one and two, eight.
All these are the best cases because they cannot be further divided on, as I know did, values.
So for F1 number four, students are one and one.
What happens?
It.
Great.
Everyone is one and f off who is also one for you guys.
So I hope you understood what is optimal substructure.
I'm not making a third call here to f off one here and not using it.
So it should be optimal.
It should not be more.
It should not be less.
It should contain all the things that I need.
Great going on.
Let's move on to the third point.
So always remember, I will only be performing these three steps again and again in all the 26 problems.
Eight.
This is kind of a definition video basically for dynamic programming.
Yeah.
What's the third part?
Third party is called.
Memorisation or tabulation or overlapping set problems.
It's a little overlapping of problems.
I'll just put something out.
And you understand this?
No, not very.
Yeah.
So we have overlapping some problems and programming mean what is overlapping is a problem.
I mean, if I want to calculate F for for.
Eight in f6fa Ford has been calling it an F for food is also being called L.
So it means that if you're going to look for.
Is being.
Is being like found once it is being found once.
If it is, I am going in the subtree of apple foothill then I do not need to go in the subtree over
for Foothill Fire because I have already found out what is there for food which is forbidden.
Like you would have already found it out.
And why should I calculated again by showing that I was in all this subtree and go to the base cases
and then add them and come back.
I can't do that.
Right.
But that's what overlapping problems mean, that these two problems are overlapping.
They are the same problems.
Eight.
You don't understand more about this when we will be solving knapsack problem.
Also.
Yeah, I called it out a little bit and then you'll understand this in more detail.
What is overlapping?
Some problems, guys.
Overlapping some problems mean that there are some problems which are repeating.
If they're repeating, don't calculate them again.
Find them once.
Store them.
And when the next call is being done on them, the same plate, then the venue.
Right.
So in the third party, we have overlapping some problems, repeating the problem.
So how to solve these regarding the problems?
There are two approaches.
The first is called tabulation.
And the second is called.
Memorization.
Eight.
What are the differences between tabulation and memorization?
Tabulation is a stable format.
So we have a table.
We have already have a static table, fig side, fixed base table fixes.
30.
And we are filling it.
We are filling the rows and columns offered by using the rows and columns which are already being filled.
And what is memorization based?
Memorization is that if you have calculated it once and if I'm going on it again.
So in tabulation, we cannot go to any state again because it's like a table in a table.
All the cells that you need grade, I imagine are unique in a table eight because we will be moving
like for new ways provides again and will move to all the columns one by one.
So.
We will not go to any state twice in abolition.
Not go to any state.
Eight.
But in memorisation we know because we are forming a recursive relation we will write adequacy function
that goes in function.
Let's talk about this.
We'll call F of six, F of six will call for five, then a four for F, I will then again call for four
and F of three.
So here we can see f what is being what do I use?
Right.
So to avoid calculation twice, to avoid all these recursive functions.
And what we'll do is we'll simply.
Use memorization.
That means it's kind of like visit your dad if you've already visited it and don't visit it again.
So it is.
Saving and.
Be using.
So here we have a memo pegged to what's a memo, but it's a you can dig a map.
You can dig up any whatever you want.
So we'll fill that area or that map with something, which is.
I know.
Not in the answer, right?
If I want to find out when I economist, I'll fill it with minus them and completely fill the whole
area with minus one initially because a minus one will means it's not visited.
I've never been to the state, but once that seed has been calculated, I simply.
Apply memorization.
That means I simply store their doubts in the memo.
So when the next time I come to the Articles of Reconciliation, I simply check that if the answer has
been regularly in the memo where that means if the memo of that particular end is article two minus
one completed because I've already calculated it and saved it would.
That's about my musician in the next.
Very well.
Like Ford boat the best ever.
Yeah.
So I have those 26 eight quarter problems.
I got all these problems both ways by using tabulation and memorization, but.
Always.
And.
Great.
Then the next part will understand what is how to.
Differentiate between tabulation and memorization in detail.
It will and grace in the next five.